Since it was first discovered that a large stick could be employed by
one primate to beat another primate to death, the application of
kinetic energy in war has been a mainstay. In the terrestrial domain,
that means bullets and bazookas, missiles and mines; in the orbital
domain, that means Anti-Satellite (ASAT) missiles at present and
Kinetic Anti-Satellite Weapons (Kinetic-ASATs) more generally. While
we do have some fundamentally new techniques such as cyber warfare,
and while the precision and quantity of application has changed, most
approaches in warfare, even in orbit, come down to application of
kinetic energy. The general consensus among space industry
professionals and scientists is that ASAT missiles should be
banned. The debris, or “Space Junk” generated by a successful impact
can easily cause decades of chaos. On numerous occasions, attempts
have been made to ban these weapons with the most recent being a
motion before the UN by the US to ban testing of a specific type of
ASAT missile. Since there are multiple types of ASAT missiles, and
even more types of ASAT weapons that generate debris, this proposal
only addresses the testing of a fraction of the overall risk
profile. Even a ban on testing that subset was rejected by Russia and
China. The application of kinetic energy (i.e. hitting a target with a
rock, a bullet, or shrapnel) causing a target to break apart is highly
effective and therefore unlikely to ever be truly banned. If, like
nuclear weapons, Kinetic-ASATs cannot be banned, then they should be
managed. This paper examines the incentive structures associated with
Kinetic-ASATs finding concrete steps which can be taken to alter those
incentives and reduce the risk of catastrophic deployment of
Kinetic-ASATs.
