\section{Supporting Premises}
\label{section::support}

If the three premises regarding the incentive structure surrounding
\acp{kasat} are accepted, this section may be safely reserved as a
reference.

fixme: this part is too insubstantial and could use some more
contextualization, methinks.

\subsection{ASATs are of Strategic Value}

Satellites are strategic assets with capabilities ranging from
predicting the weather for air-force operations, to providing
\ac{pnt}, to monitoring for \ac{icbm} launches.  As Laura Grego
states, ``Remote-sensing satellites that take high-resolution images
of the ground have strategic and tactical importance that makes them
attractive targets for ASAT weapons.''\cite[p16]{grego} Even something
as simple as \ac{gps} provided a major strategic advantage during the
first Gulf War.\cite{gps-gulf} Civilian communications were made
possible in Ukraine with Starlink satellites, and communications with
western advisors via \ac{afcom}.\cite{xxx}.

Much as the ability to eliminate a strategic location/installation
makes an \ac{icbm} a strategic asset, so too does the ability to
destroy a billion dollar satellite make a \ac{kasat} a strategic
weapon.  Satellites have little or no defense against these weapons,
their destruction is complete, and remediation requires the
construction and launch of a new satellite.  It seems reasonable to
categorize them as ``strategic''.

Even if the precise distinction of classifying them as ``strategic''
vs ``tactical'' were to be disregarded there is one statement that can
clearly be made: they accomplish the mission.  If the mission is to
ensure that an enemy spacecraft is no longer available to that enemy,
then \acp{kasat} will get the job done.

It should be noted that \acp{kasat} have never been used in time of
war\cite{brian}, and so their odds of intercept could be reasonably
questioned.  However, as discussed above, the countermeasures that
would likely be required for a satellite in orbit to evade an incoming
\ac{kkv} \footnote{see section \ref{section::mitigation::1}} can be
quite severe and seem unlikely to have been deployed.


\subsection{Few Alternatives to \acp{kasat} Exist}

To pose a viable alternative to a \ac{kasat}, it must have two key
attributes: its effects must be permanent and complete.  Laser
dazzling, for example, is only effective while the target is within
range of the laser and is only effective against an optical payload;
Laser dazzling is neither permanent nor complete.  If the laser were
powerful enough to physically damage the optical sensor, it could be
said to be ``permanent'', but without disabling the other critical
systems, it cannot be said to be ``complete''.

Common \ac{asat} methods are listed in figure
\ref{figure::asatOptions} with these attirbutes annotated.  There are
some caveats associated with these findings\footnote{See the Executive
Summary from
\href{https://swfound.org/media/207344/swf_global_counterspace_capabilities_2022.pdf}{Global
  Counterspace Capabilities} (source \cite{brian}) for a more thorough
examination of the state of public evidence related to \acl{asat}
weapons.}, for example ``While the United States does not have an
operational, acknowledged direct ascent anti-satellite (DA-ASAT)
capability, it does have operational midcourse missile defense
interceptors that have been demonstrated in an ASAT role against a low
LEO satellite.''\cite[pxiii]{brian} It is also unclear whether or not
Russia's \ac{dasat} system (Nudol) is or will be
deployed.\cite[pxv]{brian}

For the sake of expediency, Brian Weeden and Victoria Samson's
publication {\it Global Counterspace Capabilities}\cite{brian} will be
treated as authoritative and comprehensive - if it isn't in that
publication, it is assumed not to exist in the public record.

\begin{figure}
  \label{figure::asatOptions}
  \centering
  \begin{tblr}[
    ]{%
      colspec = {
        Q[c,m]Q[c,m]Q[c,m]|
        Q[c,m]Q[c,m]Q[c,m]Q[c,m]
      },
      column{2-7} = {font=\bfseries},
      row{even} = {gray!25},
      row{odd} = {white},
      row{1-2} = {gray!65},
    }

    \SetRow{rowsep=10pt}
    \SetCell[c=3]{c,m} {\bf Weapon} & & &
    \SetCell[c=4]{c,m} {\bf Deployable?} \\

    \SetRow{c,b}
    {\bf Weapon}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf Permanent?} \end{turn}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf Complete?} \end{turn}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf USA} \end{turn}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf Russia} \end{turn}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf China} \end{turn}
    & \begin{turn}{90} {\bf India} \end{turn}
    \\

    \ac{leo} \acs{dasat} & \CIRCLE & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \LEFTcircle
    \\

    \ac{leo} \acs{coasat} & \CIRCLE & \CIRCLE
    & \Circle
    & \CIRCLE
    & \Circle
    & \Circle
    \\

    Directed Energy & \LEFTcircle & \Circle
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \Circle
    & \Circle
    \\

    Cyber \ac{leo} & \LEFTcircle & \LEFTcircle
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    & \CIRCLE
    \\

  \end{tblr}
  \caption{XXX}

\end{figure}

Speculation exists regarding the development of other \ac{asat}
methods.  For example, the hardware, software, and operational
capabilities necessary for the recently announced billboard
constellation\cite[nytimes billboard]{xxx} could potentially also be
used to execute \ac{rpo} based attacks.  The Chinese have announced
their ability and intent to utilize short-distance
grappling.\cite[sigh...where was this?]{xxx} These sorts of attacks,
which are capable of permanently and completely disabling a spacecraft
without generating debris, are where weapons development efforts
should be focused.  Otherwise, the \ac{kasat} will continue to be the
go-to weapon in orbit.


\subsection{CNC Safeguards \& Oversight}

No documentation was found that directly illustrates military
doctrine, civilian oversight mechanisms, chains of command,
use-of-force doctrines, etc related to \acp{kasat} for any nation.
Several branches of the US military were contacted in advance of this
publication seeking information on any of these topics: all declined
to comment.  Worse-yet, the concept of civilian oversight is also
somewhat muddy in the more autocractic nations.  Below is a summary of
the examined sources, and resulting findings.


\subsubsection{\acfp{abms}}

The primary mission of an \acf{abms} is to intercept an incoming
\ac{icbm}.  With development of these systems stretching back to the
1950's\cite[p01-10]{brian}, sophisticated \acp{abms} have now been
deployed.\cite[p01-15]{brian} \acp{icbm} from Russia require
approximately 30 minutes to reach their targets in the United States,
and submarine-fired missiles require only 15 minutes.\cite{cnc-primer}
As such, much of US nuclear doctrine is built around the concept of
rapid response.\cite{cnc-primer}

Incoming \acp{icbm} operate in a similar regime to orbiting
satellites, traveling at similar speeds and
altitudes.\cite[p01-15]{brian} As such, \acp{abms} can and have been
used for \ac{kasat} missions.  With a ``one-time software
modification'', three SM-3 missiles were known to have been made
capable of intercepting satellites.\cite[p01-15]{brian}

Ultimately, missiles from an \ac{abms} are capable of executing
\ac{kasat} missions and are under a governance structure that likely
(owing to the nature of their mission) favors rapid action rather than
prudent restraint.  The number of missiles that have been modified to
accomplish that mission by the US alone is unknowable, and no public
material is available discussing any \ac{cnc} safeguards or aspects of
the chain of command related to \ac{kasat} missions.

\subsubsection{Civilian ``Oversight''}

It has been argued that human power structures are governed by the
ability to provide rewards to key supporters.\cite[ch1]{dictator} In
small coalition systems, institutions are fragile and readily
overturned, especially during a change of power.\cite[ch2]{dictator}
In small coalition governments, such as China, the populace at large
(and their interests) have little sway over
decision-making.\cite[ch1]{dictator}

In China, citizens are literally enslaved due to their professed
religion.\cite[ouigers]{xxx} It is not uncommon for political rivals
to be assasinated\cite[polonium]{xxx} or
imprisioned\cite[navalny]{xxx} in Russia and those in the general
population who ojbect are regularly jailed.\cite[protestors
  jailed]{xxx} While some say that democracy in a large-coalition
government like the United States is stable\cite[chXXX]{dictator}, it
can be rather unnerving to consider that the nation only narrowly
evaded a coup attempt culminating on January 6, 2021.\cite[summary of
  coup attempt]{xxx}

What impact, if any, that ``civilian oversight'' might have on
\ac{kasat} governance in a small-coalition government like China or
Russia (or the United States should ensuing coup-attempts such as the
proposed constitutional convention succeed) is beyond the scope of
this paper.  This concept in this context is an open area of research
(see \S\ref{section::furtherWork}).

See Bruce Bueno de Mesquita and Alastair Smith's book
\cite{https://www.publicaffairsbooks.com/titles/bruce-bueno-de-mesquita/the-dictators-handbook/9781541701366/}{The
  Dictator's Handbook} for a more thorough treatment of the
mathematics of coalition-based governance.


\subsubsection{United States}

The United States has sophisticated \ac{cnc} safeguards in place, as
well as published doctrine and sever sections of civilian code
associated with the management and use of nuclear weapons.\cite[the
  right joint publication]{xxx} Nuclear weapons possess terrible
destructive power and are a central element of the \acf{mad}
doctrine.\cite[mad overview]{xxx} The destructive power and global
consequences of an unauthorized launch is so well respected that
``[Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications] requires rigorous
procedures and processes to support the President and the Secretary of
Defense in exercising command authorities in the areas of situation
monitoring, decision-making, force direction, force management, and
planning to direct the actions of the people who operate nuclear
systems.''\cite{nuke-matters-handbook} Published materials (\ac{cnc}
safeguards, published doctrine, etc) for \acp{kasat}, by contrast, do
not appear in obvious and/or analogous locations.

Several sections of US Code and at least two recent bills relate to
the permissible use of nuclear weapons.  Title 10 of US Code, for
example, pertains to the armed forces at large and establishes a
Nuclear Weapons Council.  Title 50 governs war and national defense
and contains several chapters related to nuclear weapons.  These
titles, by contrast, do not contain guidance, restrictions, or
civilian oversight for antisatellite weapons with a few minor
exceptions.  While the structural similarites of appropriate
governance structures would not necessarily be expected carry over to
locations in law, one could reasonably expect that were a governance
structure in place at all, it might appear somewhere in the \acf{usc}.

FIXME: Finish the spreadsheet for jcs.mil and put that result in here.

The US Navy, US Strategic Command, US Missile Defense Agency, US Space
Force, and US Space Command were all contacted in advance of
publication seeking comment on their \ac{cnc} safeguards and/or
doctrine regarding \ac{asat} missions.  All declined to comment.  If
there is a use-of-force doctrine, CNC safeguards, or any other
governance structure in place, they are unwilling to share it.

While the United States does have the most publicly-available
information of any of the nations with current \ac{kasat}
capabilities, the governance structure for American \acp{kasat}
remains unknown.


\subsubsection{China}

The 2007 destruction of Fengyun-1C was arguably the most irresponsible
space weapons test ever to have happened.  It produced an initial wave
of roughly 3,500 pieces of trackable debris $\ge$10cm, of which
approximately 80\% (2,750 pieces) are still in
orbit.\cite[p05-01]{brian} The orbital altitude of the test (865km)
results in debris with an expected lifetime measured in hundreds of
years.\cite[fig from SpaceX]{rando-orbit} The mere fact that the 2007
test occurred suggests that, at the very least in 2007, civilian
scientists with knowledge and understanding of the consequences of
that kind of launch were not in a position to provide substantive
pushback.

Little public information is known to the author to be avaiable.  A
brief examination of the chain of command in \ac{pilaf} does not show
strong evidence of good governance.  Previous ASAT testing was
performed under the command of general XXX, YYY of the PLA Air Force,
a position currently held by ZZZ.  ZZZ's history does not seem to
include orbital mechanics, quantum physics (radiation pressure), solar
science (changes in atmospheric drag), or space systems in general.
FIXME: Dig up the citations from the spreadsheet of Chinese generals.

All of this uncertainty only underscores the concerns that exist
around the fact that China is one of the two truly irresponsible
global actors in the field of \acp{kasat} and lacks any known internal
governance to prevent further abuses.

\subsubsection{Russia}

Russia is a small-coalition oligarchy.\cite[need help here]{xxx}
Political adversaries are routinely imprisoned or
assassinated.\cite[navalny]{xxx}\cite[polonium]{xxx} Threats of
nuclear launches, credible allegations of plots to launch a false-flag
attack with a dirty bomb, and a road to economic ruin are all a part
of the current ruling coalition's actions related just to the Ukranian
invasion of 2022.\cite[nytimes article false-flag]{xxx}\cite[nytimes
  article russian economy]{xxx}\cite[nytimes article russian
  nuke]{xxx}

How this regime would view use of the Nudol antisatellite missile
should the war escalate is well beyond the scope of this paper.

\subsubsection{India}
India's first and only \ac{kasat} test (Mission Shakti) occurred at
250km of orbital altitude leaving very little debris which quickly
decayed.  By comparison, India has been a beacon of restraint and good
judgement.  However, a single instance of good judgement is not a
guarantee of future behavior.  The lack of published and verifiable
material makes for a very uncertain future.
